So what we're gonna talk about now is
using X state with a variety
of different libraries.
If you look at the documentation,
you will see that there's recipes for
using it with react, View,
RX JS in even Ember now.
So, each of these ways has a template and
if you go to the homepage,
so if you go to
github.com/davidkpiano/xstate,
You will see each of these
templates over here.
So if you want to incorporate X state
into react, here's how you would do it.
Go ahead and
click the X State Reacts Template.
And you will see here, once we zoom in
that we have our machine
defined just like before.
So this is going to say create machine
which is going to be the newer syntax of
create machine.
And this is going to
work directly in reacts,
so if you remember this toggle
machine it's just a reducer.
So you could even use toggle machine
transition as a reducer function
if you were using it just as a plane
reducer that doesn't emit any effects.
But there's also an XState/Reacts package
which provides a use machine hook.
And so this allows you to use this
machine you defined directly in react
the same way that you would use reducer.
And so it provides you two things,
currents which represents the current
state, in sense which represents
a function that allows you to send
events back up to the machine.
For instance, when we click this button,
we're gonna be sending the toggle events.
And that toggle event is gonna be
toggling between inactive and active and
whenever we enter active,
we are gonna increment the counts by one.
Which you could see right there.
So that's how you would
incorporate it into react.
Let me go ahead and There's another
example that I want to show, okay.
And I'm gonna go ahead and
sign in for this one.
Okay, great.
All right, so here's a more advanced
example of using X State and
powering it with react.
Typically, what you would want to do
is you would want to separate your
machine and the components definition.
So, I'm going to show you why
you would want to do that.
Right over here.
Here we have a timer machine
that models the Android timer.
Pretty exactly.
And it's a minute timer.
So once you click here,
it's going to start counting down.
And you could do things such
as pausing the timer and
this is the behavior when it's paused,
it just flashes at you.
You could also reset the timer and
it goes back to 60.
One other thing you could do when
you're in the running state,
you could add minutes.
So this machine in particular
is created with TypeScript,
which we're not gonna go
into in this workshop.
But this machine has
nothing to do with React.
All it's doing is it's defining
the behavior for extended data
such as the duration, the elapsed in the
interval is happening in the machine and
what states it could go between
in that machine, for example,
it's in the running normal state.
When we press pause,
now it's in the pause state.
So the interesting thing about this is
that because we're defining our machine in
a completely pure way, in fact,
I could show you this individualization
we copy this over here.
You can see that this is the schematic for
how that timer machine works.
So once we toggle we go
into the running state.
We could also add a minute or we could
toggle and then we go to the past state.
So you could see we go back and
forth between normal and paused.
Now, one huge advantage of defining
your machines this way, and
not tying it directly to the framework is
that you could even use these machines
directly in other frameworks,
such as view.
And so what I did was I took
that exact same machine,
you can see the timer machine over here.
Absolutely no reference to
view whatsoever in here.
In fact, nothing needed to change
with this machine in particular,
everything is just the same except with
all the typeScript types stripped out
because I'm using just
JavaScript over here.
And you could see that this machine is now
running exactly the same way but in view.